{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw15840\paperh24480\vieww15840\viewh21480\viewkind1\viewscale90
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Andrew Barberi\
            Andrew J. (Andy) Barberi, 64, the former coach of the Curtis High School football team and a key figure in the growth of scholastic footbaIl on Staten Island, died this morning in his home on Grasmere Ave., Grasmere.\
Mr. Barberi's name has been synonymous with Curtis football since 1930, when he was guard for the Warriors. He captained the squad in 1933, and was chosen to the high school all-national team.\
            Born in lower Manhattan, Mr. Barberi was brought to Staten Island at an early age. He became active in Staten Island sports and became a standout football player in his sophomore year at Curtis.\
            After graduating from high school in 1934, he received a scholarship to New York University, where he became a guard on the NYU varsity squad. He captained the team in 1937.\
            During Mr. Barberi's playing days he struck a deep friendship with a man with whom he was to share a lifelong friendship and rivalry -  Sal Somma, coach at New Dorp High School.\
            The two men became the driving forces in Staten Island football. Almost single-handedly they rescued high school football on Staten Island from apathy.\
            One of Staten Island's yearly sporting events was the Thanksgiving Day game between Curtis and New Dorp. It was a direct outcome of the Somma-Barberi friendship.\
            Although Mr. Barberi was graduated from NYU in 1937, he did not begin his teaching and coaching career until after World War II. During the war he served in the U.S. Army Air Force for five years.\
            His first teaching assignment was at PS 18, Broadway, West Brighton. Dur\'ading this time he began his football coaching at Curtis.\
In. 1951, he began full-time teaching at Curtis. It was there that Doc Anderson, health education chairman at the St. George high school, entered his life.\
            \'93Doc was like a second father to me,\'94 Mr. Barberi would say. \'93He prepared Sal and me for the teaching exam. I couldn't begin to describe the impact Doc had on me once I started teaching. Perhaps the two most basic truths he taught me were that I was hired as a teacher, not as a coach, and that a foot\'adball game should never be put before a kid.\'94\
            While football was the association the public made when hearing the name Andy Barberi, it was a different associ\'adation that his students made.\
Nick Bilotti, former Barberi student and now Port Richmond High School football coach said, \'93I think he's been' one of the most influential people on Staten Island. You have to remember something about Andy Barberi. He's a winner. If you looked at his record of teams and didn't look at his impact on people, he'd come out looking like the loser; but he's far from being a loser. He's probably one of the greatest win\'adners to hit Staten Island.\'94\
            Mr. Barberi recognized the happiness and significance of his life. He recalled his years at Curtis as \'93great years, bet\'adter than any man has a right to expect.\'94\
            But it was people that influenced him, that meant the most to him.\
            \'93I was very lucky,\'94 he asserted. \'93I met a hell of a lot of great people. I wouldn't . . . 1 couldn't even begin to men\'adtion names.             Teachers...chairmen\'85prin\'adcipals\'85parents\'85custodians. Everybody I came in contact with did something for me and always left something with me.\'94\
            His real passion for teaching, howev\'ader, was invigorated by the kids he taught and coached.\
            \'93The great losers in Andy's death,\'94 Somma said this morning, \'93are the kids. He was an aid and an inspiration for many generations of Staten Island kids.\'94\
            Winning football was not Mr. Barberi's goal. Helping kids was. Somma recalled that on many occasions Mr. Barberi would use his own money to help a player through a rough time.\
            \'93If a kid had to go to Princeton to apply for a scholarship,\'94 Somma said, \'93Andy would see to it that the kid had money to get there. He'd take it out of his own pocket. That was the type of guy he was.\'94\
            He was the type of guy that other peo\'adple admired. Dennis Barrett, the foot\'adball, coach at Monsignor Farrell High School, said, \'93If I can look at myself when I'm Andy's age and say I'm half  the man he is, I'll count myself a suc\'adcess.\'94\
            At age 64, Mr. Barberi did not seek a rocking chair. and the warmer climates of the Sun Belt. He remained on Staten Island, and he remained active.\
            This week he had planned to attend a meeting of the Staten Island Baseball Oldtimers Association on Wednesday, a meeting of the Staten Island Athletic and Recreation Alliance on Thursday, and on Friday a dinner to honor the Wagner College and College of Staten Island basketball teams.   On Saturday, a day of rest for most people, he was to judge a boxing 'match at Wagner Col\'adlege. .\
            He was also serving on the Curtis High School 75thanniversary committee.\
            Mr. Barberi's coaching record at Curtis was not a success, at least in terms of win-lose percentage. During his .tenure as Curtis coach, the team lost more often than it won.\
            \'93He was a wonderful person, who will be sorely missed,\'94 Somma said. \'93Sta\'adten Island is less a place because of his passing.\'94\
            Mr. Barberi is survived by his wife, Eleanor; a son, Bruce, who is a football coach in Nebraska, and a grandson.\
            The funeral will be from the Colonial Funeral Home, New Dorp. Arrange\'adments are being completed.\
\
}